# shinyMatrix-Matrix-Input-for-Shiny-Apps

The details of the codeset and plots are included in the attached Microsoft Word Document (.docx) file in this repository. 
You need to view the file in "Read Mode" to see the contents properly after downloading the same.

A Brief Introduction
======================

Matrix Input for Shiny
=========================

This package provides an input field to enter matrix conveniently in a shiny application. It supports tabbing and jumping linewise in the matrix, copy-pasting from other spread sheets applications.

Installation
===============
From CRAN:

install.packages("shinyMatrix")

Usage
UI
======
The input field is generated by the function matrixInput

matrixInput <- function(inputId,
                        value = matrix("", 1, 1),
                        inputClass = "",
                        rows = list(),
                        cols = list(),
                        class = "character"
                        pagination = FALSE,
                        lazy = FALSE){
  [...]
}


Call the matrixInput function in your UI generating, e.g. ui.R

## numeric matrix
matrixInput("matrix1", class = "numeric")

## editable rownames
matrixInput("matrix2",
  rows = list(
    names = TRUE,
    editableNames = TRUE),
  data = matrix(letters[1:12], 3, 4)
)

Get value
=============
You can access the value from the matrix input using input$inputId in your server function. The result will always be a matrix of the class defined in matrixInput.
Update Input Field

You can update the input field using updateMatrixInput

updateMatrixInput(session, inputId, value = NULL)

value is the data object. In the future there should be also support to update the other parameters.
Example Apps

You find the code for the example app in inst/appXXX.
Basic functionality
====================
    1.Fixed matrix width
    2.Editable matrix content
    3.No column and rownames

Use the matrix on the left to input values, matrix on the right displays the result.

library(shinyMatrix)

startApplication("app")

Update Matrix Input from R
============================
    1.Generate a random matrix within the shiny server function by clicking on "Update Matrix"
    2.The matrixInput field gets updated with updateMatrixInput from R

startApplication("appUpdate")

Editable row and column names
===============================
    1.Edit row and column names by clicking on the cell
    2.The result will be shown on the right

startApplication("appRownames")

Extend Matrix Automatically
==============================
    1.If matrix is full (last row and columns contain values) rows and columns are added automatically
    2.Copy pasting functionality enabled

startApplication("appExtend")

Custom Column Header
=====================
    1.Replace default header with a multiheader
    2.Automatically add 2 columns if matrix is full

startApplication("appDoubleHeader")

Delete Rows and Columns
========================
    1.add a button to delete rows and columns. This also works for multiheader.

startApplication("appDelete")

Lazy Update of server values

    Only update data on server when no input field is visible

startApplication("appLazy")
